SpecViz Pan/Zoom Documentation (#237)
spacetelescope/jdaviz: docs/specviz/displaying.rst

Pan/Zoom
========

> Included with the SpecViz tool are multiple manners to change your view/perspective on the data displayed, depending on your environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Included with the Specviz tool are multiple manners to change your view/perspective on the data displayed, depending on your environment:
```

Interactive Pan/Zoom (Desktop App interface)
--------------------------------------------
You can find the following Pan/Zoom tools available in the tool drawer of the viewer:

2D Bidirectional Pan/Zoom
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The 2D Pan/Zoom Icon allows you to zoom using the scroll wheel. The window will zoom into the area around your cursor:

.. image:: ../img/SpecViz_2D_Zoom.gif

>     :alt: Zooming in SpecViz with the Scroll Wheel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :alt: Zooming in Specviz with the Scroll Wheel
```

To pan, simply click and drag the window

Horizontal/Vertical Zoom
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Horizontal and Vertical Zoom tools allow you to zoom along each axis, while locking the other. Zoom by scrolling

.. note::
    A gif here showing how these tools manipulate the view, similar to above may be useful here

API Pan/Zoom (Notebook interface)
---------------------------------

> The SpecViz helper contains a set of convinence methods to programmatically define the view of the spectrum viewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Specviz helper contains a set of convinence methods to programmatically define the view of the spectrum viewer.
```

> For information about the SpecViz, and other, helpers, and how to instantiate one, please see `helpers <https://readthedocs.org/404>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about the Specviz, and other, helpers, and how to instantiate one, please see `helpers <https://readthedocs.org/404>`_
```

.. warning::

>     The helper page has not yet been written/defined. Until that documentation is written, you may instantiate a SpecViz Helper via:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The helper page has not yet been written/defined. Until that documentation is written, you may instantiate a Specviz Helper via:
```

    ::

        from jdaviz import SpecViz
        
        # Instantiate an instance of SpecViz
        specviz = SpecViz()
        # Display SpecViz
        specviz.app

Limit methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You can use the methods x_limits() and y_limits() to modify the field of view of SpecViz. You can provide it a scalar (which assumes the units of the loaded spectra), an Astropy Quantity, or 'auto' to automatically scale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the methods x_limits() and y_limits() to modify the field of view of Specviz. You can provide it a scalar (which assumes the units of the loaded spectra), an Astropy Quantity, or 'auto' to automatically scale
```

::

>     specviz.x_limits()

Reviewer 2: Same as previous comments for these lines.

    specviz.x_limits(650*u.nm,750*u.nm)
    specviz.y_limits('auto', 110.0)

> Additionally, you can provide the limit methods with a `specutils SpectralRegion <https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/spectral_regions.html>_`. SpecViz shall set the bounds the upper and lower bounds of the SpectralRegion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can provide the limit methods with a `specutils SpectralRegion <https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/spectral_regions.html>_`. Specviz shall set the bounds the upper and lower bounds of the SpectralRegion
```

::

    from astropy import units as u
    from specutils.spectral import SpectralRegion

    bounds = SpectralRegion(0.45*u.nm, 0.6*u.nm)
    specviz.x_limits(bounds)

Autoscale methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can also quickly return to the default zoom using autoscale_x() and autoscale_y()
::

>     specviz.autoscale_x()

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to use this line instead of the one 3 lines above? That way, instead of "autoscale_x() and autoscale_y()" we can do something like ":func:`~specviz.autoscale_x()` and :func:`~specviz.autoscale_y()`".

Reviewer 2: :func:\`~specutils.Spectrum1D.read\`

    specviz.autoscale_y()

Axis Orientation methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To quickly flip an axis to change to and from ascending/descending, use flip_x() and flip_y()
::

>     specviz.flip_x()

Reviewer 2: Same as above comment.

Pan/Zoom
========

> Included with the Specviz tool are multiple manners to change your view/perspective on the data displayed, depending on your environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to pan or zoom in on spectral features of interest.
```

Interactive Pan/Zoom (Desktop App interface)
--------------------------------------------
You can find the following Pan/Zoom tools available in the tool drawer of the viewer:

2D Bidirectional Pan/Zoom
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The 2D Pan/Zoom Icon allows you to zoom using the scroll wheel. The window will zoom into the area around your cursor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel: `2D Pan/Zoom` icon allows you to zoom using the scroll wheel. The window will zoom into the area around your cursor:
```

.. image:: ../img/SpecViz_2D_Zoom.gif
    :alt: Zooming in Specviz with the Scroll Wheel

> To pan, simply click and drag the window

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To pan, simply click and drag the window.
```

Horizontal/Vertical Zoom
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Horizontal and Vertical Zoom tools allow you to zoom along each axis, while locking the other. Zoom by scrolling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Horizontal` and :guilabel:`Vertical`  zoom tools allow you to zoom along each axis, while locking the other.  Zoom by scrolling
```

> The Horizontal and Vertical Zoom tools allow you to zoom along each axis, while locking the other. Zoom by scrolling
> 
> .. note::
>     A gif here showing how these tools manipulate the view, similar to above may be useful here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Horizontal and Vertical Zoom tools allow you to zoom along each axis, while locking the other. You can also zoom by scrolling.
```
I would remove the note, this seems like something that should stay internal and should not be on the user facing documentation.

Author: Hmm... I was following guidance from @orifox about that note. Maybe we should rediscuss what to do?

Author: Brought this up at the tag up. Will make a confluence page to talk about all possible suggestions

API Pan/Zoom (Notebook interface)
---------------------------------

> The Specviz helper contains a set of convinence methods to programmatically define the view of the spectrum viewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Specviz helper contains a set of convinience methods to programmatically define the view of the spectrum viewer.
```

> For information about the Specviz, and other, helpers, and how to instantiate one, please see `helpers <https://readthedocs.org/404>`_
> 
> .. warning::
>     The helper page has not yet been written/defined. Until that documentation is written, you may instantiate a Specviz Helper via:
>     ::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may instantiate a Specviz Helper via:
```
Again, this note should be internal and should not be on the user facing documentation.

>>> from jdaviz import SpecViz
>>> # Instantiate an instance of SpecViz
>>> SpecViz = SpecViz()
>>> # Display SpecViz
>>> SpecViz.app

Limit methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You can use the methods x_limits() and y_limits() to modify the field of view of Specviz. You can provide it a scalar (which assumes the units of the loaded spectra), an Astropy Quantity, or 'auto' to automatically scale

Reviewer 2: :py:func:\`SpecViz.x_limits()\` and  :py:func:\`SpecViz.y_limits()\`

> You can use the methods :py:func:`SpecViz.x_limits()` and :py:func:`SpecViz.y_limits()` to modify the field of view of Specviz. You can provide it a scalar (which assumes the units of the loaded spectra), an Astropy Quantity, or 'auto' to automatically scale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the methods :py:func:`SpecViz.x_limits()` and :py:func:`SpecViz.y_limits()` to modify the field of view of Specviz. You can provide a scalar (which assumes the units of the loaded spectra), an Astropy Quantity, or 'auto' to automatically scale
```

::

>>> SpecViz.x_limits()
>>> SpecViz.x_limits(650*u.nm,750*u.nm)
>>> SpecViz.y_limits('auto', 110.0)

Additionally, you can provide the limit methods with a `~specutils.SpectralRegion`. Specviz shall set the bounds the upper and lower bounds of the SpectralRegion

>>> from astropy import units as u
>>> from specutils.spectral import SpectralRegion
>>> bounds = SpectralRegion(0.45*u.nm, 0.6*u.nm)
>>> SpecViz.x_limits(bounds)

Autoscale methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You can also quickly return to the default zoom using :py:func:`SpecViz.autoscale_x()` and :py:func:`SpecViz.autoscale_y()`

Reviewer 2: I think we decided to go with `Specviz` in the documentation instead of `SpecViz`.

Author: Agreed, but as I brought up with @eteq, our helper class is still called `SpecViz` so wherever I refer to the helper object, I continue to use `SpecViz`. Unless you think this isn't appropriate here?

Reviewer: Use SpecViz as the name of the helper in docs until it gets changed in the code.
